This week on the podcast, I have an
extra special guest. Stephanie Dresser
is chief client and product development
officer at private investment giant
Apollo. Uh she's been there for over 20
years. She spent a decade before that
doing alternatives at JP Morgan. Uh what
a fascinating person. Apollo runs $840
billion in client assets. uh and she has
really not over overseen the wealth
division but also worked on a variety of
geographies, new products. Uh she's on
everybody's best of list. She's been on
the Baron's women in finance list since
inception every year. I thought this
conversation was fascinating. If you're
remotely interested in private equity,
private debt, private credit, private
infrastructure, you'll find this
conversation absolutely fascinating.
With no further ado, Apollo's Stephanie
Dresser.
Stephanie Dresser, welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thank you, Barry. Happy to be here.
>> Happy to have you. So, we're going to
get into Apollo and your investment
philosophy in a bit, but before we do, I
I just have to start with your
background. Bachelor's in Barnard at
Colombia, MBA from Colombia business
school. What was the original career
plan?
>> I I did always have finance in my sites.
>> So, undergrad it was econ and psych. I I
joke that I use the psych in my
day-to-day field way more than the econ.
>> Um, but there there was always a draw
towards doing something in in the
financial kind of arena. interest in
markets and the like. So, uh, very early
internships led me down that path.
>> And I read somewhere in your background
that you were particularly inspired to
go into finance by your grandmother.
Tell us about that.
>> That is true. So, my father's mother
uh lived with us for a time and believe
it or not uh she was born in the very
very late 1800s. Mhm.
>> And while her brother went on to become
a doctor, she capped out at an eighth
grade education. And so the power of
education was always um a core value and
a focus of of hers and my family. Um and
she used to read the Wall Street Journal
cover to cover every day. Super smart.
>> Uh loved tracking stocks. And so we
started to track stocks together. And
>> how old were you at this time? Oh, I
don't know, maybe 12.
>> Okay.
>> And in a very high-tech way, we would
put it up on the refrigerator and kind
of see the the changes in and the
holdings that she had in her portfolio
and sometimes overlapped with that of my
parents.
>> So, that was the early start.
>> So, you get an MBA from Colombia. JP
Morgan was the first job right out of
school.
>> It was although there there was u a
mentor, right? uh prior to the JP Morgan
opportunity uh that believe it or not I
started babysitting for this family and
I didn't know what the mother did
dayto-day
>> until after a period of time of of
babysitting she looked at me and she
said I think your babysitting days are
over and I said I don't know what you're
talking about and she said I run a
women-led
healthcare consulting firm
>> would you like an internship and I
practically fell off my chair and I
said, "I would love an internship."
>> How old were you at this time? Like 16.
>> Yes. Uh it was like late high school,
maybe early college, early early. And it
was the most amazing kind of opportunity
that someone could give me, right? Just
seeing a professional organization
um do its thing and all the analysis and
client relationship management that went
into that. So while I I decided that
healthcare wasn't my thing and
consulting wasn't my thing, it was very
an easy bridge to to JP Morgan and and
the finance field.
>> So when you started JP Morgan, what was
the role? How did you what what areas
were you toiling in?
>> So I started with a rotational
opportunity which uh was terrific. I had
everything from fixed income research to
private banking in Geneva. Uh
[clears throat]
>> did you go to Switzerland?
>> I did. Yeah. Yeah, for about 6 months.
Um, I realized that I needed to buy all
of my groceries during the day because
it was closed by the time I got out of
work and then I like to travel on
weekends. So, uh, importantly though,
and seriously, it was a terrific uh time
in my life to
be more aware of time zones and cultural
nuances and really see kind of a a
client perspective outside of of New
York and the US. So it's a big world.
>> Totally. Uh yet it also can feel so
small once you start to to travel and
live elsewhere. So that was a terrific
opportunity and then ultimately out of
that rotational program ended up in
alternatives within the private bank and
then we were off to the races. So
alternates way back when but before you
leave Switzerland um I recall a vacation
not too long ago to Lake Geneva and
what's amaz and we we're in this hotel
that used to be a castle and like you
think you have some understanding of the
guilded age and old money and then you
see no no we mean 500 years old
[laughter] money it's just such a
different eye opening so different than
here.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Really really amazing. Um so
you're in the alts um group at at JP
Morgan. You stay at JP Morgan for a
decade. Tell us a little bit about the
work you did there.
>> Yeah, so it was very early days of
speaking to families around the world,
the ultra high net worth clients of of
JP Morgan about the role of alternatives
in their portfolio. And I remember
distinctly speaking about the core and
satellite within alternatives. now kind
of private markets as our nomenclature.
But it gave me such a great perspective
in terms of the educational kind of
foundation that we needed to set first
with those clients and I see it now
continuing to play out. But my my time
at JP Morgan and it was a very fast 10
10 years and an amazing kind of training
ground was uh was kind of a an
assessment of all the different private
market strategies from private equity to
hedge funds to credit and uh the seat
was a combination of the buy side so
kind of due diligence on the managers we
were going to put on platform and then
the sell side in terms of the educ
educational component to the end banker
and and client. Super fun. Traveled
around the world speaking about uh how
alts could factor in to return profiles
and diversification, smoother volatility
all at a time when private equity was
not on the front page every day. It was
very early.
>> Let's contextualize a little bit. This
is the mid to late 90s and early 2000s.
the stock market was just screaming
higher, double digits, especially the
last four years of the '9s. Um, what was
it like then? How receptive was the
audience to you should consider the
private markets? How how much smaller
was the whole space back then?
>> Yeah. Uh, it was very early days and uh,
a very small fraction. I mean, I
remember, you know, if we if we launched
kind of one manager a quarter, it was a
big deal. Now, I feel like there are
probably dozens kind of on on the shelf
available for for clients um every
[clears throat] every day, every
quarter. the uh but the transformation
was starting to take hold where uh there
were especially the large families
recognizing the return potential that a
manager in in alternatives could provide
in in their portfolio and they didn't
want to rely it was very early but they
saw that they didn't want to rely
exclusively on public market exposure.
So um you know when we look at actually
the percentages in kind of large family
office clients today it matches or
frankly exceeds that of an institution
but it's still they they started at the
ultra high net worth end
>> so much earlier kind of in back in those
days than most in wealth. So I think you
know there were you know the likes of a
JP Morgan client base and a select
number of other private banks did start
early in in showcasing these
opportunities and the adoption as I
traveled around the world was was strong
but it was still kind of storytelling
and a lot of niche opportunities where I
feel like we fast forward to today
people recognize that private market
solutions can play both the core and
satellite in in their portfolio as it
relates uh to [clears throat] a
complement to the public market
exposure.
>> So you join Apollo in 2004. I'm kind of
curious. A few years earlier we have the
dot implosion. A few years later we have
the great financial crisis. I I hate
when people call these, you know, once a
century events because they seem to
happen a lot more frequently than that.
But how significant were those giant
public events to telling the story of,
hey, here's some private market
investments that you don't have the same
sort of volatility and regular, you
know, explosions.
>> Yeah. No, you're you're right. um they
they were such an incredibly important
backdrop uh to to why alternatives, why
private markets and and in fact when I
was still in my seat at JP Morgan but
Apollo was offering then our private
equity flagship fund five
the the dot uh boom was just at its tail
um and was starting to fracture. You saw
the signs and Apollo came on to the
platform and was talking a value story.
>> Mhm.
>> And for the first several weeks, there
wasn't as much take up and then as the
the market started to change
dramatically, there was this wakeup call
of whoa, you know what, let's look at
value again. Um, and that kind of was
the tail end of the of the story uh for
for that fund raise um back around the
2000 period. Fast forward to the great
financial crisis. Uh it was such an
incredible time at that point. and I was
already in my Apollo seat to to see the
investment committee dynamic.
>> Mh.
>> And you know there were moments that
thankfully because we were um so steeped
on the credit side in addition to
obviously our view of private equity
where we we could back up the truck on
certain credits with conviction. And I
look back now with with honestly such
pride for um the decisions that were
made in that period of time and frankly
many subsequently during moments of
dislocation where uh it it they make it
look so easy on the investment side, but
it actually takes so much work and rigor
to be in position to make those um big
investment calls in those moments in
time, but it it served us incredibly
well and and continues to even
liberation day
>> and right post when the market started
to move materially. There wasn't that
much time within 48 hours there were
there was kind of a correction um from
uh from the volatility that we saw on
household issuers and and names. But
thankfully based on our scale and
knowledge of those capital structures,
we were able to to put about 25 billion
of dollars to work in just a few days
and were one of the biggest market
participants during that moment of of
dislocation.
>> You know, you mentioned high conviction
investments.
I I recall in the mid to late 2000s,
people tossed around the phrase toxic
assets and my attitude was always
there's no such thing as toxic assets.
There are only toxic prices. [laughter]
Everything discounted enough become
eventually becomes attractive.
>> Look, we are uh one of our kind of
taglines that you'll hear internally and
externally is purchase price matters.
>> Yeah. 100%. what you pay for something
is going to have a giant impact on what
the subsequent returns are going to be.
>> Totally. And you know that that does it
does require discipline especially when
multiples are going to kind of
stratospheric levels. Um but you know it
has that strategy has borne out um in a
very kind of productive and successful
way for us maintaining that discipline.
But as you're saying like spotting those
moments where in investments are
mispriced or not well understood and
being willing to u deal with that
complexity at the right place at the
right price in order to generate the
outcome we want.
So, I love this title, but it I got to
think people are wondering what's a day
in the life of Apollo's chief client and
product development officer like it
sounds like that's a really wide um bit
of land.
>> It's it's a fun job. So, I've been at
Apollo now 21 years
>> and when I first started, I built out
the institutional side of of the
business globally. So, sovereign wealth
funds, think the DB public pension
plans. And that was very much our core
client base with an episodic offering
through a private bank or a wire from
time to time.
as uh as that market evolved and and
matured
uh into a very robust global business uh
[clears throat] there it was clear uh to
Mark Rowan now CEO and I that um at some
point complementing that institutional
business with a wealth strategy uh was
in our future. We wanted to make sure
though that we chose the right moment um
to really lean in to wealth because it
it does take a massive commitment and
I'm sure we'll talk more about it. So um
in my role uh I am fortunate enough to
build out our business as it relates to
our client set of offerings, our product
development uh as well as our
partnerships with
>> [clears throat]
>> uh with our distributors, with our
investors, and just making sure that as
we continue to innovate, we meet our
clients where they are and often kind of
co-author
the types of offerings that are most
meaningful to them. So I in any given
day I get to think about our set of
products and what we're innovating. I
get to speak with our clients and and
partners existing and and prospects.
I manage a large group of of people and
our talent and I lean in with a very
[clears throat] keen focus on culture
which means a lot to me. So that's
really interesting. How would you
describe Apollo's culture and and what
do you do to help shape that?
>> So look, since the day I joined, there
have been c certain common themes to to
our culture which I think have always
kind of propelled us forward as a firm
now public, but very much feels like a
partnership. and and the first one is
making sure that we uh continue to
innovate to feel very entrepreneurial
and to empower our people to kind of
find those opportunities um and and
pursue them in in an appropriate way. We
manage the firm as a meritocracy. So we
want to give people responsibility and
let them uh kind of really kind of have
the greatest impact that that they can
for their own professional careers as
well as for for the firm. And we we want
to have a winning high performance
culture. Meaning, you know, even with
all the success that we've had, we want
to maintain that, propel it forward, and
continue that high level of performance.
And importantly, we do it together. So
it's not about any one person. I often
say to my team, you know, it's it's we,
not me. And that's really powerful. So
when we bring everything that Apollo has
to offer, we call it kind of the one
Apollo to uh to any client situation or
any goal, we can use that power of of
the firm to be successful and to allow
us all to win. Hm. So the biggest
complaint I heard from various corporate
executives during the pandemic was how
do we maintain the corporate culture?
We've spent so much time and energy
trying to build over the years. Suddenly
everybody's at home on a Zoom call in
their pajamas. How do how do you
maintain corporate culture like that?
>> It is it's so important frankly whether
we're all in the office to maintain that
culture or certainly the challenges
during during the pandemic.
uh
making sure certainly during that during
kind of that COVID period of creating
uh forums even if it was remote to
maintain the connectivity was was really
uh important to uh have different I
remember many different kind of
lunchtime meetings that we would have on
Zoom or our our family u community group
would have different webinars where it
was the employee as parent and then
their children frankly were involved as
well. So I think it's kind of for
fostering that sense of of community
even if it is in fact remote. And then
thankfully once in office uh I know as I
was passing through the sixth floor here
at at Bloomberg
>> um I saw the uh the very deliberate kind
of floor plan that you have and food and
beverage kind of accessible to
employees.
>> Everybody has to go through six. It
causes all these random meetings that
you have. Oh, I haven't seen you in a
long time. How's everything going?
Because everybody shows up for coffee or
treats.
>> Totally. And and we have the same. So,
ours is on the eighth floor, but we call
it the casual collision. And that's
really important to our culture to kind
of show up certainly as soon as we could
do uh do so from a practical perspective
and allow for that collaboration. It's
uh it's super important for people to to
share and get to the best answer
possible together. So, I want to talk
about the wealth channel, but before I
get there, I have to ask about something
that Apollo does that not every large um
private markets firm does. Uh you have
talked about
realigning the interest of the firm with
clients, making sure that you're on the
same side uh of trades and towards that
end, Apollo is a regular co-investor
along with clients in certain projects.
tell us about that.
>> Yeah. Uh so from a from a kind of
balance sheet perspective uh we are
often one of if not the largest investor
side by side with our third party
clients in the investments and
strategies that we manage. So through
our uh retirement services business,
Athen uh as well as our thirdparty
business, we we invest side by side and
so the decisions we make on behalf of
the balance sheet are uh [clears throat]
aligned with with the outcomes of um of
the strategies in which we invest third
party capital. So we often say while we
can't guarantee the outcome, we
guarantee a shared outcome
>> and uh and that means a lot to us in
terms of our commitment and focus, but
also to our clients because they they
know how important it is to us in
multiple ways. I I would imagine if
anybody has hesitation on a um
investment, if you see the private uh
equity firm co-investing along with you,
that has to be a big confidence driver.
>> It it is. And in certain instances, like
when you look across the industry, um a
commitment from an asset manager might
be at the 2.5% or 3.5%.
It's uh it's an outlier if it's a 5%
commitment
>> but not double digits.
>> Exactly. Where in one strategy of ours
which um has a diversified portfolio of
of private markets uh we are twothirds
>> wow
>> of that portfolio. So uh when when we
say that it's it's meaningful to our
balance sheet we we mean it. uh how does
that work in terms of direct stakes and
performance fees? Like if you're most of
the
invested assets, that has to have an
impact on what the balance sheet looks
like. How do you guys align that?
>> So look, we we are performance first at
the end of the day.
um our
you know our relationships and the trust
that we build um are overtime through
performance and um and through service.
I mean we want to make sure that our
partners feel our our support um in just
about every way. Um so for us it's it's
never about a particular fee of one type
or or another. Uh ultimately we're not
focused on an AUM goal
>> that is the reward for good performance
and as long as we are uh making the best
investment decisions and showing up
frankly as a best-in-class partner for
our clients that is what drives our
business forward.
>> So let's talk a little bit about the
wealth channel which is uh where where
you um uh focus some of your time early
in your career at Apollo. tell us how
this has changed over the past 20 years
and tell us a little bit about what type
of clients show up there.
>> Yeah, so you know the the wealth
business uh I saw certainly in my very
early days of JP Morgan but then for my
first kind of 16 plus years at Apollo uh
[clears throat] the private bank or or
wire was really more the exception than
the rule. It was a a more of a episodic
type of of relationship that all
completely transformed into a strategic
commitment from [snorts] u from all of
us at at Apollo starting about four or
five years ago. So when Mark Rowan took
the reigns as CEO,
u all the stars aligned to build a
wealth business to complement the
institutional.
And that that decision truly needed to
come from the top, CEO on down because
it is strategic. It's it's not
transactional if you're going to do it
well. It needs to be a long-term
commitment to to the channel. And in my
view, there are actually only a small
number of firms that can really show up
and do this well
>> in partnership with uh with all the
financial intermediaries involved with
wealth. And the reason I say that is uh
when you look at what's required, it's a
pretty massive lift. You need to make
sure that you build out the right
relationships and you need the team
globally in place to do that across
channels and geographies. You need to
make sure that the product mix is
extensive enough so that you're relevant
as it pertains to our uh investment
capability, but you want to make sure
that you're showing up with the right
structures for the right clients. Then
there's the educational component,
there's the servicing, there's
technology.
For example, we we have spent actually a
billion dollars, $1 billion from our
balance sheet in wealth tech investments
alone to make sure that we're partnering
and investing in firms that will help
the industry. So I think there are very
few that can do that well and and truly
meet the wealth clients where with uh in
order to meet their portfolio needs.
>> So within that channel family offices,
high net wealth, sovereign funds, are
you also selling through other
intermediaries like brokerage firms or
RAAS? Tell us a little bit about that.
>> Yes. So the the channels represented in
wealth include the private banks and
wires as one channel.
>> The independents which includes raas and
uh and independent broker dealers.
Family office is also kind of under our
our wealth umbrella. So that's the ultra
high net worth space uh selectively. And
then we have geographic focus, you know,
out outside of of the US across EMIA uh
and and Asia. The rest of of North
America is is covered um appropriately
uh out of uh Canada and Latam. So uh so
each of those channels are are
represented and uh while each has
differences and we definitely approach
them with different resourcing and and
commitments, the common denominator of
of all of them is helping the
intermediary, the adviser or the banker
or the CIO of the family office
either build for retirement in in the
case of their underlying client or build
to a certain level of wealth. And so
whether it's, you know, a a wire like a
a UBS or um a Morgan Stanley and their
set of advisors or you name kind of an
RAIA, we want to show up to that
intermediary
with offerings that are going to work
for their platform and you know their
their base and make sure that we can
speak to semi-liquid as well as draw
down and really kind of listen closely
to what they're looking to provide their
clients.
>> So the challenge we always see on on the
RAA side is on the private seems
everything is sort of a oneoff and
whereas on the public side the
custodianship is standardized, the
reporting is standardized, all the
compliance and due diligence is pretty
you know um turnkey.
Tell us about a the challenges of of all
the private uh investments that may not
all be identical and is there a solution
out there, a platform in development
that might make this more like a turnkey
more public security like than private?
>> Yeah, it's a journey, but I think it's
already getting better. And I do see a
world where it it becomes
uh so much easier, more efficient to to
access. And so if we look at what we're
already seeing, uh you know, when we
think about an interval fund structure,
uh where [clears throat] you can buy uh
many different underlying strategies,
it's pointandclick through an advisor,
but it's pointandclick. there isn't kind
of the wholesome subscription process
that we've seen. uh there's innovation
which you know we have worked on in in
partnership with state street for
example where there are ETF structures
of which private markets are a part u
and I think the technology is moving
from kind of more of an analog to
digital
>> um in in just kind of the the plumbing
and the infrastructure that supports the
the private markets
overall ecosystem. So there's there's
definitely a lot of time and effort to
try to simplify the processes and I
think it's going to go handinhand with
an evolution that's already starting
where allocators are looking to to
managers like ourselves to not only
offer specific parts or specific
strategies but to um increasingly offer
more holistic solutions. So a bundle of
private market solutions which could be
multistrategy
going to eventually kind of
multistrategy multi-manager
uh as as well which can then be housed
not only in the accounts uh brokerage
accounts or self-directed that uh we see
so often today but in a range of pools
of of capital and models and u a number
of discret ressionary pools of capital
that are highly applicable for private
markets.
>> So, we're living in a moment where
private credit and private equity, they
used to be a small niche. That's no
longer the case. Not only are they
mainstream, they're one of the fastest
growing parts of uh the investment
world. Tell us a little bit about what's
happening in that space and what's
driving that shift. Yeah, I I think
there's been uh a transformation in
terms of public and private holdings in
a portfolio and what does it mean to be
safe or risky? I
>> think historically
people have
thought that because something was
liquid in the public markets, it was
inherently safe or frankly safer than
something less liquid in the private
markets. And as we look at 2022 and
frankly many moments of dislocation in
the public markets,
I think there's now a a much clearer
recognition that the public markets can
be both safe and risky as can the
private markets
>> because when we look at the public
markets, let's say the S&P 500 for
example, the performance and frankly
moments of underperformance have been so
concent concentrated in terms of the
attribution to roughly seven stocks.
Sometimes people will say 10 stocks. But
when there's so much concentration or
frankly lack of diversification in the
public markets, it it creates a moment
where people start to zoom out and say,
"Frankly, what if the toolkit for my
equity piece of the portfolio should
have a combination of both public and
private?" And frankly, what if my fixed
income segment of the portfolio should
have both public and private? Then the
toolkit for advisors and for for
families is much broader to create that
excess return. And what we've seen is
the desire to incorporate the private
markets not just as an add-on to an
otherwise traditional 60/40 portfolio
but rather thinking of it as part of
their core holdings in equity and debt
and think and now thinking simply of
alternatives as an alternative to public
stocks and bonds. So 6040 becomes
50 3020 or 60 2020 20 or something along
those lines.
>> Yeah. Or or it could even keep uh
whatever percentages are split between
public between equity and debt but have
both the public and private options
available within each of those
percentages to maximize the return to
maximize diversification and to reduce
the volatility. It's a gamecher. It's no
longer a nice to have private markets in
a portfolio. It's a need to have in
order to meet the long-term financial
goals of the client.
>> So, one of the things I can't help but
notice over the course of my career,
which began more or less around the same
time as yours in the mid 90s, is that
the total number of public equities has
shrunk dramatically. The Wilshshire 5000
is about 3,400 stocks. Uh the S&P 500
still 502 stocks because of a shares.
It's a little over 500, but even the
Russell 2000 and some of the other
broader indexes, far fewer public names
in there. How much is the shrinking of
the public float driving activity onto
the private side? I
>> I think it's very real. You're right.
It's about half the number of public
companies it was, you know, just, you
know, even a couple of decades ago. At
the same time when when you look at the
number of companies total number of
companies globally
90% are in fact private.
So if someone truly wants representative
uh exposure in their portfolio, it's
really hard to rationalize eliminating
90% of the total number of companies out
there, right? and focusing exclusively
on public because it's liquid.
Realistically,
uh one needs to look at what is the
return profile goal for the portfolio.
What what type of illquidity can uh can
someone accept and and then create a
portfolio that allows for that excess
return? Institutions have realized that
now over decades and they've been the
beneficiaries of that excess return by
accepting some [clears throat] amount of
illquidity
with the advent of new structures in the
private market. Certainly for wealth and
increasingly even for institutions.
You can um [clears throat] you can
select uh offerings out there that
provide more interim uh liquidity. It's
it's not your ATM. No one should think
that it is. But it provides a much
broader suite of solutions across a
range of liquidity profiles offering far
more liquidity than one would have
received in a traditional uh private
equity drawdown structure. In in our
view in as we develop portfolios with
our clients uh depending on what they're
looking for in terms of underlying
return and and liquidity we believe
there's a a role for a mix of both uh
more more liquid private markets
structures as as well as draw down
depending on the strategy. So, so let's
talk about liquidity and um
semi-liquidity as well as illquidity.
The academic perspective has always
been, hey, when you're moving into an
illquid market, you get the benefit of
the illiquidity premium. It's a smaller
market. It's less efficient. There's
opportunities to create alpha here, but
the tradeoff is your money is locked up
for three years, for 5 years, for seven
years, whatever it is. When first with
the semi-liquid products, are you giving
up some of that upside in exchange for
semi-liquidity?
>> Our view is that the the structure and
the design should marry the underlying
assets in the portfolio.
>> So two-year credit notes are going to be
more liquid than perpetual open-ended.
>> Exactly. So we have you know in our our
view the strategies within private
markets are so wide ranging which to
your point in terms of portfolio
construction you know our our view is
that since uh a private market holding
can span everything from shortterm
investment grade uh credit all the way
through to your traditional kind of
private equity draw down. That's a very
wide range. And when you think broadly
about that type of exposure,
why shouldn't an allocation in a
portfolio be maybe even 50% to private
markets just given the breadth and
applicability of the underlying assets
from the shortdated investment grade
credit all the way through to more
traditional private private equity. But
but to your point u there are options
where private markets can be a part of
an overall portfolio like an ETF format
where it is in fact daily as part of a
broader portfolio or if you go to kind
of an investment grade strategy it may
be you know monthly in nature but you're
you're right the the tradeoff for
stepping out a bit on um the liquidity
curve albeit you know not too much
further is a pickup in in the excess
return.
>> Really interesting. You know, I'm I'm
not going to quote you exactly, but I
did read something you had said um about
private credit is that uh you see a
fullon fundamental rethink taking place
in the space. Explain what you mean by
fundamental rethink.
>> [snorts]
>> you know, the the idea of uh of private
markets or alternative of alternatives
being that very high risk portion of a
portfolio and therefore a small
percentage
uh of one's allocation locked up for a
long period of time. That's just no
longer the modern thinking of the use of
private markets in a portfolio. There's
no reason right now why an adviser and a
banker can't think in a far more
flexible way about how they are meeting
the [snorts]
need to save for retirement or the u
ability to build wealth
with private market structures in mind.
So, it kind of goes back to that idea of
public markets being safe and private
markets being risky. That's no longer
kind of the the thinking in in the
market. I think most uh intermediaries
have really challenged that historical
way of building portfolios and they want
the same benefits that the institutions
have now had for decades. The reality is
that the uh uh
[snorts and clears throat] the size of
the wealth market in terms of assets
held by families by individuals is about
the same size as that held by
institutions, right? Each about 150
trillion or so globally. The
institutions right now have an a an
average allocation of over 20% to
private markets. the individual on
average 3%.
>> Yeah, I was going to say single digits
clearly. Absolutely.
>> And all of the when we when we look at
the projections and a variety of war
game scenarios, this looks like this is
going to continue to grow over the next
decade.
The the I know this is a speculative
question and no one really knows, but
how large can the private markets get
relative to the public markets? Can they
be the same size eventually?
>> Look, our our view is that origination
uh is the great differentiator.
So we we focus uh not as kind of aum as
a limiter but rather origination and
making
>> define that because when I hear
origination I'm thinking not all private
investments are created the same
>> right it's the ability to create
proprietary
uh investment opportunities
is in our view a huge differentiator for
[snorts] a platform and uh we partner
with financial intermediaries and that
is additive in in terms of the flow of
of investment opportunities
but not exclusively. In fact, over um
the last almost 15 years now, we've
built out 16 proprietary origination
engines.
>> Mhm.
>> So that we can create that investment
alpha inhouse for the benefit of of our
clients. And that proprietary
origination fuels our underlying
portfolios uh which ultimately in in our
view is critical to delivering on the
return.
>> So those 16 different engines I'm going
to assume they're each in a different
type of space.
>> Exactly. So
>> real assets, infrastructure, private
credit, private debt, which isn't always
the exact same thing, private equity,
there's got to be many more. What what
other spaces are you what other
geographies are you looking at? What
other spaces are you looking at? What's
the product mix look like?
>> Yeah. So on on the origination side, it
it is quite broad. I think everything
from uh fleet finance to uh
>> fleet jets, ships, all the above.
>> Exactly. and and even um trucking, you
know, there's a whole range um in terms
of everything from aviation
um to kind of uh ground transport,
there's consumer finance, there's
specialty finance um that's uh there's
mortgages. So it's it's quite broad uh
in terms of the reach but it's it's
ultimately originating
um the investment in uh what we call
kind of the industrial renaissance and
the need for that private capital is is
real and additive to to what could
otherwise be found in the public
markets.
>> Really really fascinating. But before I
get to I only have you for a limited
amount of time. Before I get to my
favorite questions, let me just ask you
one more question. What do you think
investors who are looking at the private
markets aren't thinking about or talking
about but should be? What sort of
topics, geographies, policy issues?
What's out there that is getting
overlooked but perhaps shouldn't?
>> [snorts]
>> So what what I'm seeing uh more and more
is is a global trend of of the
democratization
for private markets and as I look at
what's happening certainly in our own
backyard in terms of the executive
orders around 401k
and then I look to uh to Europe and I
see their regulation around the Eltiff
2.0.
>> Mhm.
>> Or I look even to the UK and I see rags
in the UK and France in terms of certain
um requirements and percentages to
private markets in their retirement
plans. To me, there's a global theme of
uh the desire to allow more access of
private markets to uh to the individual
and through their adviserss, through the
intermediaries
um to truly be able to uh adequately
plan for retirement. and and we see
obviously the [snorts] state um of of
kind of retirees here in in the US and
there's a dire need to give them um you
know through uh managed accounts through
target date um access to investments
that will provide that additional excess
return and you know as as we think about
it
you know most of those 401ks have time
horizon horizons of decades,
>> right?
>> Yet the solutions they have available to
them are daily liquid.
>> Mhm.
>> That mismatch does not need to exist.
And you know, with with the um changes
that we're we're seeing come out of DC.
Um, you know, we're we're hopeful that
the framework u for the benefit of those
retirement plans will continue to be one
uh that shifts from the historical view
of maximizing those pools of capital to
the lowest possible fee
>> to one where they look to maximize
outcome and truly maximize the result
for for those participants. really
really very fascinating. Um let's jump
to our our final five questions that I
ask all of my guests. Starting with tell
us about your mentors who helped shape
your career.
>> Uh well I I I mentioned in in a prior
part of our series um someone that I
used to babysit for who gave me my first
shot in a healthcare consulting firm. So
she will remain um part of my kind of uh
my personal advisory board. Um while at
JP Morgan, uh Mary Erdos is kind of
rockstar status in in my book. Um and
and an amazing
>> uh mentor throughout my career. Uh, and
then you know many at at Apollo that I I
won't name because I want to embarrass
them, but u that have been incredible
sponsors of of my career with a lot of
opportunities just to continue to grow
and develop as a professional.
>> Let's talk about books. What are you
reading? What are some of your
favorites?
So, well, in terms of what I'm reading
right now,
uh, there's a a book called Such Good
People,
>> which I will give a disclaimer. It's
written by Amy Bloomfeld,
>> and she is a great close friend from
college, and it's a great read. And so,
I'm I'm at the end, and I don't want it
to end. So,
>> um, that's that's a great one. Um, I was
actually just away this weekend and I
have to say I was struck where I was in
the Birkshars and I was struck by the
fall foliage and just [clears throat]
amazing this year.
>> Beautiful. Like
>> coming, you know, I live and work in New
York City, so seeing those surroundings
and being back in nature, it did make me
think of Emerson and Thorough who I did
love and it's been a while since I've I
read their works, but it inspired me to
go to go back and dust that off. Uh,
let's talk about what's keeping you
entertained these days. What are you
streaming or or listening to
>> other than you?
>> Well, I don't [laughter] this doesn't
count. Give us give us a different one.
>> Uh, okay. Well, one that is top of mind
who we actually just had um participate
live uh at a a client forum of ours is
uh Dr. David Sinclair of lifespan
>> and he is um affiliated with Harvard and
his work fascinates me in in terms of
>> is that the happiness series or I love
that the longitudinal study.
>> I I love that that's a different one and
I I I I love uh that professor as well
in terms of the value of happiness at
different stages of our lives. I love
that. Um but this actually relates to
longevity more in terms of genetics and
um all the research and science and even
drug development that is going into um
the kind of health and wellness from a
longevity perspective.
>> The health span study is that what this
one is?
>> Yes, exactly. And research that they're
already doing um in terms of eyes that
could have applicability to many other
parts of our bodies. So I just find it
kind of a fascinating field that I think
will develop so much over time and of
course from a work perspective as I
think frankly of the work of both of
those Harvard professors and doctors
>> u is now how does it tie into the high
performance culture and mindset that we
have as a firm like how do we take that
thinking um and and try to think about
our own employees over time.
And our final two questions. What sort
of advice would you give to a recent
college grad interested in a career in
investing, privates, alternative
investings? What What's your advice?
>> Well, first off, go for it because I
think it's there's still so much growth
ahead. And I would just say uh stay
curious because you know as as we think
about kind [clears throat] of the
innovation that's happening just about
from every angle of product innovation
and channels and frankly even
applicability of AI to what we do today.
uh if if you're tuned in from a a
curiosity perspective coupled with kind
of strong work ethic,
uh I I think that's a winning recipe.
>> And our final question, what do you know
about the world of alternative and
private market investing today would
have been useful 30 years ago or so when
you were first getting started?
>> Well, no fun if you have the answer key,
right? But uh look, I I would say
uh the one thing that stays the same is
change.
>> Mhm.
>> And to embrace that and to be flexible,
to recognize that there will be so much
evolution and change.
uh that continues in front of us from an
industry and certainly [snorts]
as someone starting if someone's
starting out now to kind of en enjoy
that ride and recognize that there will
be many chapters that unfold and the
best we can kind of try to see where
that puck is going. But certainly
em embrace that uh that there's so much
more innovation and opportunity to come.
really really interesting. Thank you
Stephanie for being so generous with
your time. We have been speaking with
Stephanie Dresser, Apollo's chief client
and product development officer. If you
enjoy this conversation, check out any
of the 589 we've done over the previous
11 and a half years. You can find those
at iTunes, Spotify, YouTube, Bloomberg,
wherever you find your favorite podcast.
And be sure and check out my new book,
How Not to Invest: The Ideas, Numbers,
and Behavior That Destroys Wealth and
How to Avoid Them, wherever you get your
books at. I would be remiss if I didn't
thank the crack team that helps put
these conversations together each week.
Alexis Noriega is my video producer,
Shan Russo is my researcher, Anna Luke
is my producer, Sage Bowman is the head
of podcast at Bloomberg. I'm Barry
Roltz. You've been listening to Masters
in Business on Bloomberg Radio.
>> [music]